### INTEL Stock Analysis
  
  For this project, I was tasked with analyzing a dataset containing INTEL Stock Data  and create charts in Excel to vizualize the day-to-day changes. [(Kaggle Data Source)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/varpit94/intel-stock-data) 

#### Pie Chart
  I started out with a .csv file, then saved it as a .xlsx to make things easier. My next task was to clean the data and organize it. The first question I wanted to answer was: How often did INTEL increase in value on any given day? I copied the "Open" and "Close" columns to a new sheet, and named that "Increase vs Decrease". Creating a new column named "Change", I calculated the difference between "Close" and "Open" ```=B2-A2``` and populated that to all the rows. Next, I created a frequency table with the labels "Value Increased" and "Value Decreased", and using the ```=COUNTIF``` function, calculated the count of values that were greater than 0 and less than 0 for each related row in the frequency table. Then, I added a piechart for the frequency table, and formatted it with a meaningful title, removed the legend and chart border, then changed the data labels to percentage and displayed the Category name. I want this chart to be accessible to everyone, so I changed the color of the pie sections to be accessible using [WebAIM's Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/). Analyzing the pie chart I made, it's easy to see that INTEL's value is just as likely to increase as it is to decrease on any given day. This chart successfully answers my initial question! However, there was still more data to analyze. 


#### Column Chart
  The next question I wanted to answer was: How do the average monthly closing values compare to one another over the year? I copied the Data from the "Date" and "Close" columns, the created a new sheet named "Average Monthly Closing", and pasted the 2 columns into Column A and B. In Column D, I created the header "Month" and in column E, the header "Average". To fill out the Month column, I used ```=DATE(2020, 12, 1) and populated it through November 1st 2021 for a total of 12 months. To populate the "Average" column, I manually selected the cells to use, however, I believe there is an easier and more automatic way to do this, but I was unable to figure it out on my own. I'll have to return to the ```=AVERAGEIFS()``` and the ```EOMONTH()``` functions. After populating all the rows of the "Average" column, I created a column chart in order to compare the monthly averages. I titled the chart "Average Monthly Closing Values 2020-2021" to match the question I was answering, and formatted the chart to be easier to read. For the month with the highest closing average (April), I changed its color to be orange in order to make it stand out. 


#### Histogram Chart
Next, I wanted to answer the question "How frequenctly are the smaller volumes of unites traded daily compared to larger
